In the previous lesson we showed that no matter the underlying distribution of the data set the distribution
of the sample means would be normal with the mean equal to the original mean and variance equal to the
original variance divided by the sample size.
All right.
This lecture will be very short and has the sole purpose of defining what a standard error is.
The standard error is the standard deviation of the distribution formed by the sample means.
So how do we find it.
We know it's variants.
Sigma squared divided by n.
Therefore the standard deviation is Sigma divided by the square root of N like a standard deviation.
The standard error shows variability.
In this case it is the variability of the means of the different samples we extracted.
You can guess that since the term has its own name.
It is widely used and very important.
Why is it important.
Well it is used for almost all statistical tests because it shows you how well you approximated the
true mean.
More on that in the next lessons.
Know that it decreases as the sample size increases.
This makes sense as bigger samples give a better approximation of the population.
That's all for now.
Thanks for watching.